[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> How was the shoot?
>> Sucked.
Your boss called.
He's worried about you.
Amanda, I want to thank you
for letting me stay here.
I know I'm a bit
much, sometimes.
And that it's been
tough after Bob and all.
And you've just
been so wonderful.
I make a mess.
And well, I clean up afterwards,
but it's not really your style.
>> Sometimes I think
you make me sane.
>> Me?
The say I make someone
sane, they're in trouble.
Anyway, I made you something
as a thank you gift.
Open it.
I went through your pictures
and picked my favorite ones.
And it took me forever because
there's so many good ones.
This, that's for all
the wonderful photos
you will be taking.
Oh.
>> I've had a strange day.
Thank you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
- Why are we here?
- What is my life?
>> Why is your life at all?
>> What is the purpose of life?
>> What's going?
Why am I here?
>> Where am I going?
What happens when I die?
>> Why is there anything at all?
>> What is reality?
>> It makes you
wonder, doesn't it?
If thoughts can
do that to water,
imagine what our
thoughts could do to us.
>> About what
thoughts are made of.
Is there a substance--
>> This is a dream
that I'm dreaming.
Just as in a dream, you
dream, different characters
can emerge and come out to you
and talk to you and meet you
and so forth.
It's possible to go to
another level of dreaming,
where you can become each of
the characters that you dream.
>> You can go
backward and forward.
>> What could you be if
you weren't in your body?
Well, would time
matter at that point?
Or did we just solve it?
Would time go backwards?
Could you come backwards?
>> We can go
backward and forward.
>> And forward in time.
>> Time is relative.
>> If you don't
make any decisions.
>> It goes backwards in time.
It goes backwards in time
and then forward in time.
>> Time was not absolute.
>> Information.
>> Time reversal symmetry.
>> Of course, we can go
backward and forward in time.
>> This occurred when it
was really out of time.
All realities are
existing simultaneously.
>> The actual experience.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> There literally are different
worlds in which we live.
There's the macroscopic
world that we see.
There's the world of ourselves.
There's the world of our
atoms, the world of our nuclei.
These are each totally
different worlds.
They have their
own language, they
have their own mathematics.
They're not just smaller.
Each is totally different.
But they're complementary.
Because I am my atoms,
but I am also my cells.
I'm also my
macroscopic physiology.
It's all true.
They're just different
levels of truth.
The deepest level
of truth uncovered
by science and by philosophy, is
the fundamental truth of unity.
At that deepest subnuclear
level of our reality,
you and I are literally
one, one, one.
>> This gradually led into
some notions that there was
an invisible connection
between everything.
Physicists give this a name.
They call it entanglement.
>> As Einstein put it, he didn't
believe that quantum mechanics
could be true, because it
required that there be spooky
action at a distance.
>> That's why Einstein
hated quantum mechanics.
He said exactly that if
quantum mechanics is true,
then there is no more science.
>> Famous thought experiment
and a paper written by Einstein,
Podolsky and Rosen in the
1930s, which drew out,
it was it was an attempt to
defeat quantum mechanics.
It was an attempt to show
that quantum mechanics was
ludicrous.
They very, very
cleverly drew out
one of the implications,
which was not
appreciated at the time,
which was, that if a particle,
you can arrange
for two particles
to be created simultaneously.
Like a particle and
its anti-particle.
And you shoot them off
in opposite directions.
But they're in superposition,
it's two particles,
but they're in superposition.
And they're in a superposition
such that one state is
this one up and the other down.
And the other state
is the reverse.
This one up and this one down.
Those are its two states.
And it's in both of those
states simultaneously.
So it's a so-called
two particle state.
It isn't that It has four
states, it only has two states.
This and this.
Now something comes along
and bumps the left-hand one
and causes it to go into one
of its two possibilities.
It has two possibilities,
either up or down.
Let's say it goes up.
Well, then it means that
the other one must be down.
And these particles can be
three feet apart or two miles
apart or in two
different galaxies.
And yet, there states will be
instantaneously correlated.
So in that very specific
sense, the question
as to whether there's a kind of
feedback between quantum events
and matter itself,
the uncertainty,
is that it's tighter
than a feedback loop.
It's that fact is simply
woven into the fabric
of the entire universe, every
material bit of the universe.
Anytime there's a superposition,
and superpositions
are happening all the
time, those superpositions
are correlated with untold
other superpositions.
And when a superposition
collapses over there,
it collapses simultaneously,
God knows where else.
>> Does God know?
>> He's probably the
only one who really does.
>> Spooky action at a
distance, that was his term.
And what he meant
is, that when we
have our ordinary sense of the
way that the fabric of reality
is, it seems like these two
places are absolutely in space,
they're separate and never
the twain shall meet.
But in fact, that's not true.
At some deeper level that
we can't see with our eyes
very clearly, two places
in space are the same.
They're co-located, coexisting.
So if we imagine
that common sense,
the way common sense
literally meaning
that what your senses
tell you about the world,
if that's the way the world
is actually constructed,
then things like psychic
and mystical experience
don't make any sense at all.
Because the whole point about
psychic and mystical experience
that makes them
strange, is the sense
there's some kind of
connection between what's
going on inside
your head and things
elsewhere, elsewhere
in space and in time.
So what this view of
quantum mechanics provides
is a way of framing what these
strange experiences are like.
And it reframes it from
somehow magically information
is getting inside my head from
signals or forces or something
into a different view,
which is that in a sense,
your head, yes, is here,
but it's also spread out.
Spread out through
space and time.
>> What I think happens
in near-death experiences,
and maybe in death also,
is that prior to that,
while the brain's functioning,
metabolism is occurring,
quantum coherence and quantum
competition is being driven
by the metabolism.
When that ends, when
the blood stops flowing,
the quantum information leaks
out to the universe at large.
Because it exists
in the Planck scale.
It exists at the most
fundamental level.
Even during normal
consciousness,
it's occurring at the most
basic level of the universe.
But the Planck scale,
the fundamental level
between our ears in the brain.
But when the coherence is
lost, it kind of leaks out
to the universe at large.
But it doesn't
dissipate entirely,
because of entanglement.
And plus, the universe
is probably holographic,
so it remains with
a phase relationship
and can persist, at least at
a subconscious dreamlike state
outside the body.
>> Spread out through
space and time.
And so when I'm able to
get a telepathic impression
from somebody at
a distance, it's
not because I somehow
jumped out there and got it,
but because at some deep level,
my head and the other person's
head are co-located.
>> We've become entitled all
the time when you communicate
telepathically.
Those experiences
are so striking,
I literally can
read your thoughts
if I become entangled with you.
And such things happen.
There are distant
viewing experiments.
There are even
experiments now that you
are seeing light flashes
and your brain potential
picks up the signature of
those light flashes, what
is called evoked
potential, that can
be measured in an EEG machine
connected to your brain.
And I am sitting over
there, no light flashes,
I cannot see you, and
still, my brain potential,
because I'm correlated with
you in terms of intention.
I intend to be
directly communicative
with your experiences.
That intention
produces me, gives me
the capability of simultaneously
having the similar brain
potential in my brain.
It was first done
by Jacobo Grinberg
at the University
of Mexico, and now
repeated by Peter
Fenwick in London.
>> So let's say you wanted
to, you have interest in this
notion of entangled
minds, entangled bodies.
How would you demonstrate
that in the lab?
The way that we do it
is, we take two people.
We simply ask them to
keep each other in mind.
We entangle their minds
by asking them to do.
Just keep each other in mind.
It's the mental equivalent
of a physics experiment
where you're entangling people.
You wire them both
up physiologically.
You might measure the
heart rate in both of them,
brainwaves, skin
conductance, you
may measure what's
happening physiologically.
Then you separate
them into two places,
so that no ordinary
form of sensory leakage
can pass between them.
So they can't interact then
any more by conventional means,
as it's done in a
physics experiment.
And now you do the equivalent
of poke one of them
and see if the
other one flinches.
And if it turns out that
you can poke that person
and that person flinches as a
result, or at the right time,
that's a way of demonstrating
that they are still entangled,
even though they are no
longer in the same place.
What we're looking
at is the brainwave.
This is the raw brainwave
electroencephalogram.
This is skin conductance,
skin conductance level,
and this is respiration.
There we go.
It's going to run
all by itself now.
>> They had wired me up
and locked me in this room,
a massive multi-ton Faraday cage
used by the military to isolate
sensitive defense computers.
The shielded room
was riding on springs
to further eliminate all sonic,
vibrational and electromagnetic
interference.
Meanwhile, Mark sat in another
room watching a monitor.
When my picture flashed
on, he was to focus on me.
Computers collected our
unconscious responses
to see if somehow, some
way we were entangled.
>> You can see when
the sending occurs,
there's a big
arousal effect here.
And this is descending side,
and this is the receiving side.
So we're looking for, is
on this side, a response.
Possible that that
is a response.
I'm pulling the data from
these computers into this one,
where I'll be able
to do the analysis.
We ran a session with
a sender and receiver.
The sender is the red line,
the receiver is the blue line.
Beginning of the
stimulus is here at 100
and the end is at 200.
So what we're looking at is 10
seconds before the stimulus,
the stimulus itself,
and then 10 seconds
after the stimulus in each case.
So here, we're finding
the skin conductance
relaxing and then meandering.
The stimulus occurs and there's
a big reaction in the sender,
which is what we would expect.
And what interestingly,
here's the receiver relaxing.
The stimulus occurs,
and suddenly he
starts relaxing a lot quicker.
And gets to the end of the
period and stops relaxing.
So this is somewhat unusual, in
that you wouldn't expect skin
conductance to suddenly drop.
But actually, I did
an analysis to see
whether this is a
meaningful drop,
and it turns out that it is.
Significantly faster drop than
you would expect by chance.
So that's kind of unusual.
So on average, I would say that
looking at this one session
with two people, it looks like
the receiver is responding
to what the sender was trying
to do, to mentally connect.
In a large scale experiment,
we would do many sessions
like this.
We might be doing 30 or
40 sessions like this,
and then combine all
of the data together
to see whether we're
dealing with something
which is true on average.
But that's the result
of this experiment.
>> A colleague of
mine, Alex Wendt,
is a sociology professor
at Ohio State University.
And he's writing a
book on the premise
that quantum
consciousness exists
and there is subconscious
quantum entanglement
between people.
And if that's the
case, then it also
exists among groups of people,
societies, governments,
politics and so forth.
And the implications of that,
for this subconscious quantum
entanglement interactions among
people and groups of people,
has profound
implications on the way
the world runs, on the way
society and governments
and politics go on.
>> If we claim, for
example, based on research,
that group meditation lowers
crime, prevents terrorism,
even stops open warfare
in war-torn areas,
which is absolutely
true every time,
that's such important research
it needs to be done again
and again, published
again and again,
presented again and again.
So I'm a little bit
more involved now
with the application of
the knowledge of unity,
how that applies to life.
How it can be accessed
through meditation
and harnessed and utilized
through group meditation.
>> At the end of
"Entangled Minds,"
I take five or six classes of
experiments that I've created
or that I've analyzed, to
come up with a single number
of the odds against chance
for telepathy in the conscious
state, in the dream state, for
entangled minds and bodies,
for mind matter interaction, for
those classes of experiments,
which is roughly
1,500 experiments.
And the overall figure
is 10 to the 104 to 1.
So that's a big number.
I mean, at some point,
you have to say, well,
the evidence from
these experiments
is so large against chance,
that chance as an explanation
is simply not viable.
>> The difference between
ignorance and enlightenment is,
ignorance always uses reality
for a predictable outcome.
So no one in our life is
ever the love of our life.
No one in our life is ever
the angel in our life.
No one our life is ever
the bad person in our life.
No one.
It's only how we were at
two predictable emotions
that we are addicted to.
Ingenius has none of them.